Run for Your Life by Stephen Waller, Penguin Reader's Level
1. The big street, with its
cafes and shops and people, was behind them now. They
walked slowly. It was quiet. Away
from the cars and the noise, Kim was excited. She
held onto Dave's hand. They were in a
narrow street of tall houses and small shops. They heard
a radio through an open window,
a woman singing. Kim stopped and listened, but she did
not understand the words. Her
Spanish was good, but not very good. It was the
fourth day of their stay in Barcelona.
Kim and Dave were 17. They had the same Spanish
teacher at school in Liverpool, a big town in
England. Do you want to talk Spanish? Their teacher said,
well, go to Spain. There were eight of
them from the same school on this holiday. They went
to school every morning and talked
Spanish. Then, in the afternoons, they usually went out by
bus and saw something in Barcelona.
Important buildings, famous pictures, old photographs, something new every day.
Today,
Kim and Dave were not with their school friends. Dave
did not want to go by bus. He wanted to
look around the old town, not the famous buildings, not
the big shopping streets with the banks
and cafes and book shops. He was interested in the
little streets behind the old market.
The dangerous old town, people said. But Dave was not
frightened. There are dangerous streets in
Liverpool too, he said. You can't see a town or
its people only from a bus. It will be exciting.
They did not try to remember the names of the
streets. They did not have a street plan. At every
corner, they stopped and looked. Then they came to an
interesting little street. It was very narrow,
very old, they thought. Dave took a photograph. Kim looked
up. The houses were very tall. The windows
up there were in the sun. But down in the
street, it was dark. They came to a little open
place with
two or three trees and sat down. It was quiet.
Suddenly there was a noise in one of the houses.
A door opened and a man in a black shirt
and jeans ran out. He stood at the open door
and looked
back into the house. Then he ran across the street.
Is he coming over here? Kim asked. There was something
frightening about the man. Dave did
not answer. The man ran to the corner and looked
around. Then he ran away. He put something in
that rubbish bin. There were shouts from the house. A
second man ran out into the street. He had
long hair and dark glasses. He stood in the road
and looked round. Perhaps he is looking for that
man in the black shirt, said Dave. And look! He
has got a gun! Kim looked. Dave was right. The
long-haired man ran across the street and went round
the corner.
Let's get away from here. Kim said. I don't like
this. But Dave was excited. Let's go and have a
look in that rubbish bin. He said. There was a
brown box in the bin. Dave took it out and
opened
it. A small white bag fell out.
Drugs! He said. We'll take this to the police.
Can I see? Kim took the little white bag and
held it in her hand. She was suddenly very frightened.
She looked round. Behind them there was a man there
under the trees, watching them. The man
moved. Kim looked at the bag in her hand. Suddenly
she knew. Dave, that man, he's back. He's here.
She said. The man was very near them now. He
was not very tall with a thin white face and
dark
dangerous eyes. Give it to me. He said in Spanish.
His frightening eyes moved quickly from Kim to
Dave and back to Kim. You've got it. I saw
you. Now give it back. Kim opened her mouth but
the
man then she saw the knife in the man's hand.
She started to run. She ran into a small street
on the left. She ran down two or three narrow
streets but she did not see any people. She
thought, I can't stop. But all the streets were the
same. Where was she now? Suddenly she came
round a corner and her legs went cold. The street
did not go through. It stopped. There were some
cars and a big old building, an old cinema perhaps,
but there was no road through. Kim
looked back. The man stood at the corner and waited.
He started to walk slowly down the street.
Kim looked round. There was a door in the building.
She ran to it. It opened. She went in and
shut
the door behind her. He won't come after me in
here. Noise. People. Women. Talking. Shouting.
Moving their arms. The market. She was in the market
in the old town near the big shopping street.
That door was a back door to the market and
the big street was very near. She started to walk
through the market. She was in a slow moving river
of people with heavy shopping bags. She
moved with the river. Every time one person stopped and
looked at some fruit or fish, all of them
stood for the family. Then in the sea of faces,
Kim saw those same dark eyes again, watching
her. He was here in the market. Kim started to
run. There were shopping bags under her feet.
She fell and got up again. People shouted at her.
One woman tried to catch hold of her, but Kim
did not stop. Then she looked back. The man was
not behind her now. Perhaps she was wrong. Those
eyes. Perhaps it was not the same man. She saw
the big street now. She saw the sun and the
trees.
Suddenly a hand came down on her arm and held
onto her.
Are you Kim Steel? The woman asked. She was tall,
about thirty. She had a friendly look.
Kim did not understand. Yes, she started to say. But
how do you? Then in the woman's hand,
she saw a photo and in Spanish, the word police.
I am Inspector Lothano, but please call me Anna.
The police woman smiled. Your friend Dave found us. He
is in the car. Come with me.
Kim sat in the car with Dave. There was a
man with Anna. He had long hair and dark glasses.
Now Kim understood. He was a policeman too. She gave
Anna the little white bag and asked about
that. That's it. That's right, Anna said. She looked at
the long-haired man.
Nacho here nearly caught him in his house. You saw
that. Vidal, that's his name, was lucky.
He got away. But we want him. And you can
do something for us. Nacho smiled.
Yes, Kim said slowly. But Vidal knows you now, Kim.
And he wants his drugs. Listen.
This is my plan. You go back to that place
near Vidal's house. Vidal will be there and he'll see
you.
We'll be there too. But Vidal won't see us. He'll
think she's looking for her friend.
I can't do it. Don't be frightened. Vidal won't get
near you. We'll stop him. But he'll try.
And then we'll catch him.
What do you think, Dave? Say something.
Well, uh, Anna and Nacho will be near. And they
know all about these things.
But this Vidal man has got a knife. Perhaps he'll
kill me?
Well, yes. But I'll be there too, you know.
You do it then.
Ah, but Vidal doesn't know me.
Kim said yes and Nacho talked on the car radio.
Then they drove round behind the market.
Kim got out and shut the car door.
She walked to the corner. Then she looked back.
Anna smiled at her. Dave's face was very white.
Kim was frightened. These things were exciting in the cinema.
But this was not a game.
Anna and Nacho were there. She knew that.
But this Vidal was clever.
Perhaps he knew about their little plan.
And he was dangerous.
She was back in the same street now. There was
the house.
The door was shut.
And there was the rubbish bin.
Two or three people came down the street.
Kim walked slowly across the road.
She looked round. Then up at the windows of the
houses.
She waited.
He's here. He's watching me. I can feel it.
Then she saw him. The black shirt. The thin face.
It was eyes. It was Vidal. He was very near
her.
Kim looked across the street.
She was ready to run.
Then she heard Vidal.
He said something. The same thing again and again.
What's he saying?
Kim thought. Is he talking to me?
She looked at him. He did not move. Only his
mouth moved.
This time she understood the words.
Give it to me. Or you're dead.
He said.
A car drove around the corner very quickly and stopped.
Anna and Nacho jumped out. They held guns.
Anna shouted.
Police. Don't move. We've got guns.
Vidal suddenly jumped at Kim and caught her.
Kim tried to hit him to get away. But he
held onto her hair.
He was thin but strong. Then she saw the knife.
You'll be sorry, Vidal. Nacho shouted.
You can't get out of here. Think, man.
Throw the knife down and take your hands from the
girl.
But Vidal held onto Kim. He shouted to the police.
Get back in the car. Or I'll do it.
He held the knife near Kim's face. She shot her
eyes.
Time moved very slowly.
She saw a face at the window of one of
the houses across the road.
Anna and Nacho moved back to the car. Their guns
were ready.
But Vidal stood behind Kim.
You're coming with me. Suddenly there were excited shouts from
behind the police car.
It was Dave. He ran across the street.
What's he doing?
Kim thought. Does he want to see me dead?
Anna tried to stop him. Come back. This man is
dangerous.
She shouted. Dave ran to the rubbish bin.
He stopped, took the bin in his hands and held
it up over his head.
Then he threw it.
The rubbish bin went over Kim's head and hit Vidal.
Rubbish fell round his feet. He fell.
Kim quickly took the knife from his hand and threw
it away.
There were excited shouts. Kim looked up. It was Anna
and Nacho.
He's all yours now. Said Dave.
Nacho held Vidal's hands behind his back and took him
away.
Kim fell into Anna's arms.
Later they drove back to the hotel in a police
car.
Kim looked at Dave.
Don't say it. I know. It was dangerous.
But I saw the bin and I thought, well, you
know, I wanted to do something.
I see these things in the cinema. There's always a
strong man.
Today I was the strong man.
Yes. And I was nearly the dead girlfriend.
You see a lot of them in the cinema too?
Let's not think about it, Dave. It's not important now.
The important thing now is, what are we doing tomorrow?
We didn't see all of the old town today.
Let's go out again tomorrow afternoon.
Have a walk round.
You can't see a town only from a bus, you
know.
I'll go for a walk with you tomorrow to the
bus stop.